README.md, before:

# Sample Code: Reviews

This repository contains sample code. 

Its purpose being, to quickly demonstrate Android, Kotlin and software development in general. More so and amongst others, 
the main focus of this project is:
- Setup and Gradle configuration, 
- Gradle modules,
- Clean architecture,
- Clean code,
- Best practices,
- Testing and 
- All those other must know goodies.

Below is a list of goodies that are being showcased:

1. Architectural Pattern
    1. [Clean Architecture](https://8thlight.com/blog/uncle-bob/2012/08/13/the-clean-architecture.html) ```(By employing 
    clean architecture, you can design applications with very low coupling and independent of technical implementation 
    details, such as databases and frameworks. That way, the application becomes easy to maintain and flexible to change. 
    It also becomes intrinsically testable.)```
    2. [MVVM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model%E2%80%93view%E2%80%93viewmodel) ```(Model View ViewModel)```
    3. [ViewModel](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/architecture/viewmodel) ```(Architecture Components 
    ViewModel Class)```
    4. [LivaData](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/architecture/livedata) ```(Architecture Components 
    LiveData Class)```
2. Libraries
    1. [Dagger](https://github.com/google/dagger) ```(A fast dependency injector for Android and Java)```
    2. [RxJava](https://github.com/ReactiveX/RxJava) ```(RxJava – Reactive Extensions for the JVM – a library for 
    composing asynchronous and event-based programs using observable sequences for the Java VM)```
    3. [Retrofit](https://github.com/square/retrofit) ```(Type-safe HTTP client for Android and Java by Square, Inc.)```
    4. [GSON](https://github.com/google/gson) ```(A Java serialization/deserialization library to convert Java Objects into 
    JSON and back)```
    5. [Timber](https://github.com/JakeWharton/timber) ```(A logger with a small, extensible API which provides utility on 
    top of Android's normal Log class)```
3. Android Support
    1. [Constraint Layout](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/support/constraint/ConstraintLayout) ```(A 
    ConstraintLayout is a ViewGroup which allows you to position and size widgets in a flexible way)```
    2. [Card View](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/support/v7/widget/CardView.html) ```(A FrameLayout with a 
    rounded corner background and shadow)```
    3. [Recycler View](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/support/v7/widget/RecyclerView.html) ```(A flexible 
    view for providing a limited window into a large data set)```
4. Code Quality
    1. [Android Lint](https://developer.android.com/studio/write/lint.html) ```(The lint tool checks your Android project 
    source files for potential bugs and optimization improvements for correctness, security, performance, usability, 
    accessibility, and internationalization)```
    2. [Detekt](https://github.com/arturbosch/detekt) ```(Static code analysis for Kotlin)```
5. Tests
    1. [JUnit](https://github.com/junit-team/junit4) ```(A programmer-oriented testing framework for Java)```
    2. [AssertJ](https://github.com/joel-costigliola/assertj-core) ```(AssertJ is a library providing easy to use rich typed 
    assertions)```
    3. [Mockito Kotlin](https://github.com/nhaarman/mockito-kotlin) ```(Using Mockito with Kotlin)```
    4. [Robolectric](https://github.com/robolectric/robolectric) ```(Android Unit Testing Framework)```
6. Debug
    1. [LeakCanary](https://github.com/square/leakcanary) ```(A memory leak detection library for Android and Java)```
    1. [Strict Mode](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/os/StrictMode) ```(StrictMode is a developer tool which 
    detects things you might be doing by accident and brings them to your attention so you can fix them)```
7. Plugin
    1. [Gradle Versions](https://github.com/ben-manes/gradle-versions-plugin) ```(Gradle plugin to discover dependency 
    updates)```
    2. [Dexcount Gradle](https://github.com/KeepSafe/dexcount-gradle-plugin) ```(A Gradle plugin to report the number of 
    method references in your APK on every build)```

# Screenshots

![alt tag](https://github.com/ParaskP7/sample-code-reviews/blob/master/demo.png)

# Usage

Use the below command to build the project in order to install it on an Android device for demonstration:
```
gradlew clean build -x check
```

Or faster yet and targeting a specific build type (in our case the debug build type):
```
gradlew clean assembleDebug
```

Open an emulator or connect a physical device to experiment with the sample app, use the below command, which first 
uninstalls and then installs the sample app:
```
gradlew uninstallDebug | gradlew installDebug
```

Or faster yet, target a specific device (in our case an emulator):
```
adb -s emulator-5554 uninstall io.petros.reviews | 
adb -s emulator-5554 install presentation\build\outputs\apk\debug\presentation-debug.apk
```

Use this command in order to run the static code analysis for the project:
```
gradlew check -x test
```

Or if you want to be more specific, run the below commands to run the code quality tool or your choice (in isolation):
```
gradlew lintDebug
gradlew detektCheck
```

Run the project unit tests using this command (this includes Robolectric):
```
gradlew test
```

Or if you want to be more specific, run the below commands to run the tests or your choice (per module):
```
gradlew domain:test
gradlew data:testDebugUnitTest
gradlew presentation:testDebugUnitTest
```

# Future

Below is a list of all those ```I WISH I HAD MORE TIME TO DO``` future technical enhancements:
1. Espresso tests (preferable with the Robot pattern). See `MET` comment which stands for `Missing Espresso Tests`
2. Integration tests (preferable with MockWebServer). See `MIT` comment which stands for `Missing Integration Tests`
3. Missing Robolectric tests. See `MRT` comment which stands for `Missing Robolectric Tests`
4. Missing Unit tests. See `MUT` comment which stands for `Missing Unit Tests`
5. Small, medium and large screen considerations.
6. UI changes during screen rotations.
7. Other lifecycle related edge case events.

Furthermore, below is a list of all those ```I REALLY WANNA DO, AND WILL DO AT SOME POINT``` future library enhancements:
1. Replace Dagger with Koin. For more info, see [Koin](https://github.com/InsertKoinIO/koin) ```(A pragmatic lightweight 
   dependency injection framework for Kotlin)```
2. Replace RxJava with Coroutines. For more info, see [Coroutines](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/coroutines.html) ```
   (Coroutines simplify asynchronous programming by putting the complications into libraries. The logic of the program can 
   be expressed sequentially in a coroutine, and the underlying library will figure out the asynchrony for us)```
3. Replace Manual Navigation with the Navigation Architecture Component. For more info, see 
   [Navigation Architecture Component](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/architecture/navigation/) ```(The 
   Navigation Architecture Component simplifies the implementation of navigation in an Android app)```
4. Replace Manual Pagination with the Paging Architecture Component. For more info, see 
   [Paging Architecture Component](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/architecture/paging/) ```(The Paging 
   Library makes it easier for you to load data gradually and gracefully within your app's RecyclerView)```
5. Add Offline Support with Room. For more info, see [Room](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/architecture/room) ```
   (The Room persistence library provides an abstraction layer over SQLite to allow for more robust database access while 
   harnessing the full power of SQLite)```
6. Last but not least, convert the whole thing to [Flutter](https://flutter.io/)! ```JUST KIDDING 😛 ...OR AM I!```


**THANK YOU**

Commit message:

[reviews] docs: Add mvi to the future todo wish list

README.md, after:

# Sample Code: Reviews

This repository contains sample code. 

Its purpose being, to quickly demonstrate Android, Kotlin and software development in general. More so and amongst others, 
the main focus of this project is:
- Setup and Gradle configuration, 
- Gradle modules,
- Clean architecture,
- Clean code,
- Best practices,
- Testing and 
- All those other must know goodies.

Below is a list of goodies that are being showcased:

1. Architectural Pattern
    1. [Clean Architecture](https://8thlight.com/blog/uncle-bob/2012/08/13/the-clean-architecture.html) ```(By employing 
    clean architecture, you can design applications with very low coupling and independent of technical implementation 
    details, such as databases and frameworks. That way, the application becomes easy to maintain and flexible to change. 
    It also becomes intrinsically testable.)```
    2. [MVVM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model%E2%80%93view%E2%80%93viewmodel) ```(Model View ViewModel)```
    3. [ViewModel](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/architecture/viewmodel) ```(Architecture Components 
    ViewModel Class)```
    4. [LivaData](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/architecture/livedata) ```(Architecture Components 
    LiveData Class)```
2. Libraries
    1. [Dagger](https://github.com/google/dagger) ```(A fast dependency injector for Android and Java)```
    2. [RxJava](https://github.com/ReactiveX/RxJava) ```(RxJava – Reactive Extensions for the JVM – a library for 
    composing asynchronous and event-based programs using observable sequences for the Java VM)```
    3. [Retrofit](https://github.com/square/retrofit) ```(Type-safe HTTP client for Android and Java by Square, Inc.)```
    4. [GSON](https://github.com/google/gson) ```(A Java serialization/deserialization library to convert Java Objects into 
    JSON and back)```
    5. [Timber](https://github.com/JakeWharton/timber) ```(A logger with a small, extensible API which provides utility on 
    top of Android's normal Log class)```
3. Android Support
    1. [Constraint Layout](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/support/constraint/ConstraintLayout) ```(A 
    ConstraintLayout is a ViewGroup which allows you to position and size widgets in a flexible way)```
    2. [Card View](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/support/v7/widget/CardView.html) ```(A FrameLayout with a 
    rounded corner background and shadow)```
    3. [Recycler View](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/support/v7/widget/RecyclerView.html) ```(A flexible 
    view for providing a limited window into a large data set)```
4. Code Quality
    1. [Android Lint](https://developer.android.com/studio/write/lint.html) ```(The lint tool checks your Android project 
    source files for potential bugs and optimization improvements for correctness, security, performance, usability, 
    accessibility, and internationalization)```
    2. [Detekt](https://github.com/arturbosch/detekt) ```(Static code analysis for Kotlin)```
5. Tests
    1. [JUnit](https://github.com/junit-team/junit4) ```(A programmer-oriented testing framework for Java)```
    2. [AssertJ](https://github.com/joel-costigliola/assertj-core) ```(AssertJ is a library providing easy to use rich typed 
    assertions)```
    3. [Mockito Kotlin](https://github.com/nhaarman/mockito-kotlin) ```(Using Mockito with Kotlin)```
    4. [Robolectric](https://github.com/robolectric/robolectric) ```(Android Unit Testing Framework)```
6. Debug
    1. [LeakCanary](https://github.com/square/leakcanary) ```(A memory leak detection library for Android and Java)```
    1. [Strict Mode](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/os/StrictMode) ```(StrictMode is a developer tool which 
    detects things you might be doing by accident and brings them to your attention so you can fix them)```
7. Plugin
    1. [Gradle Versions](https://github.com/ben-manes/gradle-versions-plugin) ```(Gradle plugin to discover dependency 
    updates)```
    2. [Dexcount Gradle](https://github.com/KeepSafe/dexcount-gradle-plugin) ```(A Gradle plugin to report the number of 
    method references in your APK on every build)```

# Screenshots

![alt tag](https://github.com/ParaskP7/sample-code-reviews/blob/master/demo.png)

# Usage

Use the below command to build the project in order to install it on an Android device for demonstration:
```
gradlew clean build -x check
```

Or faster yet and targeting a specific build type (in our case the debug build type):
```
gradlew clean assembleDebug
```

Open an emulator or connect a physical device to experiment with the sample app, use the below command, which first 
uninstalls and then installs the sample app:
```
gradlew uninstallDebug | gradlew installDebug
```

Or faster yet, target a specific device (in our case an emulator):
```
adb -s emulator-5554 uninstall io.petros.reviews | 
adb -s emulator-5554 install presentation\build\outputs\apk\debug\presentation-debug.apk
```

Use this command in order to run the static code analysis for the project:
```
gradlew check -x test
```

Or if you want to be more specific, run the below commands to run the code quality tool or your choice (in isolation):
```
gradlew lintDebug
gradlew detektCheck
```

Run the project unit tests using this command (this includes Robolectric):
```
gradlew test
```

Or if you want to be more specific, run the below commands to run the tests or your choice (per module):
```
gradlew domain:test
gradlew data:testDebugUnitTest
gradlew presentation:testDebugUnitTest
```

# Future

Below is a list of all those ```I WISH I HAD MORE TIME TO DO``` future technical enhancements:
1. Espresso tests (preferable with the Robot pattern). See `MET` comment which stands for `Missing Espresso Tests`
2. Integration tests (preferable with MockWebServer). See `MIT` comment which stands for `Missing Integration Tests`
3. Missing Robolectric tests. See `MRT` comment which stands for `Missing Robolectric Tests`
4. Missing Unit tests. See `MUT` comment which stands for `Missing Unit Tests`
5. Small, medium and large screen considerations.
6. UI changes during screen rotations.
7. Other lifecycle related edge case events.

Furthermore, below is a wish list of all those ```I REALLY WANNA DO, AND WILL DO AT SOME POINT``` future architecture 
and library enhancements:
1. Enhance MVVM with MVI. To get an understand of MVI and how it applies to MVVM (or MVP), start with this article
   [MVI](http://hannesdorfmann.com/android/model-view-intent) ```(Model-View_Intent, is an architecture enhancment that 
   tries to solve the state problem, which most complex application have, especially when the screen complexity grows)```
2. Replace Dagger with Koin. For more info, see [Koin](https://github.com/InsertKoinIO/koin) ```(A pragmatic lightweight 
   dependency injection framework for Kotlin)```
3. Replace RxJava with Coroutines. For more info, see [Coroutines](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/coroutines.html) ```
   (Coroutines simplify asynchronous programming by putting the complications into libraries. The logic of the program can 
   be expressed sequentially in a coroutine, and the underlying library will figure out the asynchrony for us)```
4. Replace Manual Navigation with the Navigation Architecture Component. For more info, see 
   [Navigation Architecture Component](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/architecture/navigation/) ```(The 
   Navigation Architecture Component simplifies the implementation of navigation in an Android app)```
5. Replace Manual Pagination with the Paging Architecture Component. For more info, see 
   [Paging Architecture Component](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/architecture/paging/) ```(The Paging 
   Library makes it easier for you to load data gradually and gracefully within your app's RecyclerView)```
6. Add Offline Support with Room. For more info, see [Room](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/architecture/room) ```
   (The Room persistence library provides an abstraction layer over SQLite to allow for more robust database access while 
   harnessing the full power of SQLite)```
7. Last but not least, convert the whole thing to [Flutter](https://flutter.io/)! ```JUST KIDDING 😛 ...OR AM I!```


**THANK YOU**
